[DOCS-2287] add RUM watchdog insights docs page (#11189)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights.md

---
title: Watchdog Insights for RUM
kind: documentation
description: 'Get Insights on where to Start or Follow-Up your Investigations'
further_reading:
- link: "/real_user_monitoring/explorer/search/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn more about search in the RUM Explorer"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/core-web-vitals-monitoring-datadog-rum-synthetics/#what-are-the-core-web-vitals"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Monitor Core Web Vitals with RUM"
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-mobile-rum/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Improve mobile user experience with Datadog Mobile RUM"
---

## Overview

> With Watchdog Insights, find your way faster to the root cause of problems with contextual insights you receive as you explore Real User Monitoring (RUM) events. Watchdog Insights complements your expertise and instincts, giving nudges toward where you could focus your troubleshooting attention. 

Author: I think this changes the meaning of the sentence too much. Watchdog Insights helps you navigating through the RUM Explorer by recommending outliers and potential performance bottlenecks impacting a subset of users.

The suggested change implies that RM offers contextual insights AND watchdog insights - which reads a bit weird.

> With Watchdog Insights, find your way faster to the root cause of problems with contextual insights you receive as you explore Real User Monitoring (RUM) events. Watchdog Insights complements your expertise and instincts, giving nudges toward where you could focus your troubleshooting attention. 

Reviewer: Good feedback, @hdelaby! I amended my suggestion, how's this for a rewording?

<div class="alert alert-warning">
Watchdog Insights for RUM is a beta feature, rolling out to customers using RUM. If you have feedback, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help">Datadog support</a>.
</div>

> In the following example, Watchog Insights highlights that the instance of our application deployed on `view.url_host:www.shopist.io` causes most of the errors observed in a specific time range. 

Author: 🙈

Typical error outliers examples are `env:staging`, `version:1234`, or `browser.name:Chrome`.

* The **banner card** and the **side panel card** version of the insight both show:

  * The name of the field.
  * The proportion of errors and overall RUM events that this field is contributing.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/error_outlier_m_card.png" alt="Error Outlier card (M)" style="width:60%;" >}}

* The **full side panel** of the card shows, in addition:

  * The timeseries for RUM errors that have the field.

{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/error_outlier_side_panel.png" alt="Error Outlier side panel" style="width:60%;" >}}

### Latency outliers

A latency outliers insight shows fields (that is, [faceted tags or attributes][1]) that are associated with performance bottlenecks, matching the current query. This casts light on `key:value` pairs that are having worse performance than the baseline, allowing you to uncover performance bottlenecks among a subset of real users.

> Latency outliers are computed for [Core Web Vitals][2] (First Contentful Paint, First Input Delay and Cumulative Layout Shift) and [Loading Time][3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Latency outliers are computed for [Core Web Vitals][2] such as First Contentful Paint, First Input Delay, and Cumulative Layout Shift, and [Loading Time][3].
```

> * The **banner card** version of the insight shows:
> 
>   * The name of the field.
>   * The value of the performance metric that has this field, and what the baseline is for the rest of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **banner card** view, you can see:

* The field name.
* The performance metric value containing the field and the baseline for the rest of the data.
```

> {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/latency_outlier_s_card.png" alt="Latency Outlier card (S)" style="width:60%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/latency_outlier_s_card.png" alt="Latency Outlier banner card view" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

> * The **side panel card** of the insight shows, in addition:
> 
>   * The timeseries of the performance metric for this field, and of the baseline for the rest of the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **side panel card** view, you can see a timeseries of the performance metric for the field and baseline for the rest of the data.
```

> {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/latency_outlier_l_card.png" alt="Latency Outlier card (L)" style="width:60%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/latency_outlier_l_card.png" alt="Latency Outlier side panel view" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

> * The **full side panel** of the card shows, in addition:
> 
>   * A list of RUM views that have this field, to be able to find the root cause of the performance issue in the [performance waterfall][4].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **full side panel** view, you can see a list of RUM events that contain the field. Look for the root cause of the performance issue in the [performance waterfall][4].
```

> {{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/latency_outlier_side_panel.png" alt="Latency Outlier side panel" style="width:60%;" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="real_user_monitoring/explorer/watchdog_insights/latency_outlier_side_panel.png" alt="Latency Outlier full side panel view" style="width:100%;" >}}
```
